<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html><head><!--This file created 9:19 PM  9/13/2006 by Claris Home Page version 3.0-->
   
   <title>The Yeager's Ford Escort LX Wagon</title><meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
   <x-claris-window top="0" bottom="593" left="0" right="1012"></x-claris-window>
   <x-claris-remotesave server="ftp.communitygate.net" user="yeager" file="" dir="tyg/"></x-claris-remotesave>
   <x-claris-tagview mode="minimal"></x-claris-tagview></head>
<body background="graygranite.gif" bgcolor="#ffffff">
<center><font color="#000080" face="Arial" size="+3"><img src="Flapping_small_US_flag.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="50" width="68">&nbsp; 
<img src="ford_emblem.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="76" width="186">&nbsp; 
<img src="Flapping_small_US_flag.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="50" width="68"></font>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Arial" size="+3">The Yeager's 1993
Escort LX Wagon</font></p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><img src="Escort/New Escort Rear Bumper/The Escort in the early morning.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p>Escort Wagon in the driveway at our <a href="Trenton_House.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">home</font></a> south of Trenton.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</center>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>The
'Scort Journal</b></font></p>

<p>It has been a very interesting series of events that lead to this
project. I originally purchased the 'Scort late in the summer of 1997
to commute back and forth to work. I just gotten a position as
Technology Director at a small school district in Northeast Texas.
The car had 86,000 miles on it and was clean. As is typical the car
had a rough first four years. The car looked good but had some real
problems under the surface.</p>

<p>The dreaded former owner put "stop-leak" in the radiator which
caused multiple cooling problems over the next few years. The cooling
problems were compounded by another problem which occurred during
this time -- the partial failure of the coolant temperature sending
unit for the dash temperature gauge. We now know the gauge
consistently registered low. As the temperature gauge was not
registering correctly we had no idea that we were running the engine
hot until my wife cracked the head coming back from Dallas one hot
summer afternoon in 2000. I have no real estimate how many miles we
put on the car while it was overheating. The car had roughly 165,000
miles on it at the time the head cracked and the problems were
discovered. About this time I noticed a increase in fuel consumption
and I began keeping an eye on the amount of fuel the car used.</p>

<p>My wife and I started looking at new cars a in 2002. (Now that
will scare you.) As we examined our needs and wants in a new vehicle
we noted that we have 2 children, I need to do light hauling for the
school from time to time, I play electric bass for church and some
local bands, we co-own and manage several rental properties, we own a
cycling business, and I drive 32 miles one way to work. We needed
something that was reliable, could haul items, tow small trailers,
and was fuel efficient. Seemed we needed a small wagon. I noted that
some automobile dealers were pushing something they called a "sport
wagon" that sounded worth investigating. The "sport wagon" term is
one I found amusing because Ford along with a few other companies
(Saturn, Subaru, and Volkswagen come to mind) never quit making the
small wagon. It seems that some car companies have "reintroduced" the
small wagon to their line and act like they have discovered the
alternative to SUVs and mini-vans. As it turned out we owned one of
the original sport wagons, it just needed a little more sport put
into it.</p>

<p>After several months looking at small wagons, sport wagons, mini
SUVs, and mini-vans we could not find anything we liked $15,000 to
$25,000 more than what we already had. We could see a lot of ways to
spend our money other than a new car. We liked the overall shape of
the second generation 'Scort -- its soft, rounded sculpturing and
understated design. We had taken good care of the 'Scort: cleaned it,
waxed it, changed the oil every 3000 miles, kept DURA Lude or Teflon
treatment in it, and repaired any failed items. We had just gotten
all the kinks worked out and it was paid for.</p>

<p>Was our current "sport wagon" really in bad enough shape we needed
to replace it? I had Kenny Anderson, the mechanic who had been caring
for it the past few years, look the 'Scort over and do a compression
check on it. Kenny mentioned that the car was in better shape than
most cars with 50,000 miles on them.</p>

<p>If that is the case, why not see how many miles we can get out of
the 'Scort and improve it along the way. Our basic philosophy was and
is to modify the car in such a way that safety, durability, fuel
economy, and overall performance would be improved. Thus began a
project that would, as most car projects do, take on a life of its
own.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Monthly
Journal Entries</b></font></p>

<p><b>November, 2002</b> -- Had the 'Scort professionally checked.
Began Internet research on modification possibilities. Made
contacts.</p>

<p><b>December, 2002</b> -- Acquired 1993 Ford Escort GT four-wheel
disk brakes and associated suspension components. Hella driving
lights installed.</p>

<p><b>December 17, 2002</b> -- The website was launched.</p>

<p><b>January, 2003</b> -- Escort GT suspension and four-wheel disk
brakes were refurbished and installed. (The four-wheel disk brake
conversion is simple in concept. One replaces everything from - and
including - the spindles outward and the hand-brake cables with the
items from the Escort GT.) The GT brake calipers were rebuilt. New
axle bearings, drive shafts, CV joints, and struts were installed.
Front and rear stabilizer bars, Cork Sport front strut tower bar, and
Polyurethane bushings were installed everywhere but the lateral links
in the rear as Energy Suspension does not offer such for the second
generation wagons. The ignition system was upgraded and the ZXTuner
cooling fan circuit installed. I acquired a1988 Escort GT header and
intake manifold (I ultimately decided against using the intake
manifold as indicated further on). Ordered Cork Sport "Type II" rear
strut tower bar.</p>

<p><b>February, 2003</b> -- Fuel consumption is running about 25 to
27 MPG highway and 12 to 15 MPG city. Replaced both water temperature
sensors. Replaced air temperature sensor. Ordered S&amp;B "funnel
ram" air filter and conversion items.</p>

<p><b>March, 2003</b> -- Installed Cork Sport "Type II" rear strut
tower bar. Tests run to find cause of erratic fuel consumption -- the
MAF sensor and O<sup>2</sup> sensor now suspect. Replaced
O<sup>2</sup> sensor and am continuing fuel consumption tests.
Confirmed the  factory '88 GT header will work on the car.</p>

<p><b>April, 2003</b> -- Installed the ZXTuer MAF to air filter
adapter, S&amp;B "funnel ram" air filter, and S&amp;B valve cover
breather. Continued to run fuel consumption tests. A fuel consumption
pattern has emerged: the longer the trip and the warmer the intake
air the better the fuel mileage. The engine appears to be running too
rich for too long after startup. The two mechanics (Kenny Anderson of
Anderson Automotive in Trenton, Texas and Donald McAllen of Jackson
Autoplex in Commerce, Texas) I had been conferring with consulted
Ford engineers and other experts, resulting in the consensus that the
MAF sensor is the problem. Replaced MAF sensor. Continued to run fuel
consumption tests.</p>

<p><b>May, 2003</b> -- The MAF sensor didn't do the trick. The
current consensus is that the engine is just worn enough that while
the engine is cool there is some blow-by and once the engine is
completely warmed up fuel mileage and power seem to improve. There is
some oil consumption and burned oil clearly evident in the exhaust on
startup indicating worn valve stem seals on the "new" head. This is
likely a result of running the motor too hot while the undiscovered
cooling problems were occurring. The decrease in fuel economy was
noticed after the head was replaced about 2 years ago. The search is
on for a low- mileage second generation Escort with a good Ford
factory assembled 1.9L engine to replace the now aging unit in the
car. We are praying as it will likely take God to find a good example
of a 1.9L to be a donor for our car.</p>

<p>Jasper Engines and Transmissions of Jasper, Indiana looks very
impressive (on paper at least). I am wanting a good solid stock
engine for a basis as I am foremost interested in reliability and
fuel mileage. I see no reason with a properly built and modified engine that 500,000 miles can't be achieved.</p>

<p><b>May 31, 2003</b> -- <font color="#000000">Sport-compact fans, I
had the opportunity to </font><a href="lancer_evo_test-drive.htm"><font color="#000099">test
drive a 2003 Mitsubishi Lancer
Evolution</font></a><font color="#000000"> (A serendipitous,
testosteronic event).</font></p>

<p><b>June, 2003</b> -- The 'Scort passed the 235,000 mile mark.
First Annual National Escort Meet in Dallas/Fort Worth (never could
find out where the event was held). Ordered Black Diamond Racing 75%
under-drive pulley for SIP engine. Every reference I have tracked
down on Jasper Engines &amp; Transmissions has been excellent.
Researching and selecting exhaust system components. Installed front
lower valance and functional cool air scoop under front bumper.
Decided to continue making small changes to the car -- Classic
Muffler &amp; Brakes and Alignments of Wolf City, Texas installed a
2" Flow master 60 Series to gauge how the car reacts. The plan was to
install the factory headers and the remainder of the 2" exhaust
system when the engine is replaced. Ordered the manual steering rack
and the Jasper remanufactured engine via Kenny Anderson of Anderson
Automotive in Trenton, Texas as Anderson Automotive will do the
installation work. The ignition lock assembly failed and I decided to
replace the broken and out of production multifunction switch (the
bright haven't worked in some time) as I had the unit out to replace
the ignition lock assembly. Ouch! Over $500.00 in Ford Motor Company
parts (I think I&nbsp;know how these automobile manufacturers stay in
business while underwriting "0%" financing).</p>

<p><b>July, 2003</b> -- Had the old window film removed and LLumar
window film installed by The Tint Shop in Greenville, Texas. The
Jasper remanufactured engine, a rebuilt power steering rack, the 1988
Escort GT headers (headers are a bolt-on, extra mounting brackets and
bracing were added near the final collector using the factory
mounting points provided on the engine case, the ERG tube port was
plugged and welded, and the factory header bolts were replaced with
studs, washers, and nuts), Black Diamond Racing 75% under-drive
pulley, and other tweaks installed by Anderson Automotive in Trenton,
Texas. Jasper will not warranty the engine unless used with the
intake manifold supplied. The additional weight and size of the early
Escort GT manifold compared with the stock manifold was also a
concern so the GT manifold was not used. The manual steering rack did
not work as the rack would not settle in the power steering mounts in
the car in a manner that would allow it to be secure and straight. I
had not anticipated that the steering rack brackets would need to be
changed out. There was no time to find manual steering rack brackets
as the engine was ready to place in the car. Heavy modification to
the brackets might have been be possible but effort, time, and safety
concerns lead to the feeling that a rebuilt power steering rack was
the best choice in this instance at this time. The custom exhaust
system was installed by Classic Muffler &amp; Brakes and Alignments
of Wolf City, Texas. After a fair amount of research I have decided
to use Mobil 1 in the new engine after the break-in period. Finally
took pictures of the car.</p>

<p><b>August, 2003</b> -- The new engine runs great (too early to
tell about fuel mileage) and the new steering is really tight. After
the initial 500 mile engine break-in we took the 'Scort up to Brandon
MO for a family vacation. (Most tank-fulls we got in the low to mid 30s
or upper 20s MPG.) Fully loaded with four people the car would motor
up most hills in 5th gear and stay at the speed limit -- very
un-Escort like. Engine bay heat becoming a problem with combination
of the headers and the summer heat. Installed a 10" Hayden pusher fan
on the passenger side of the AC condenser to increase the amount of
airflow at low speeds. By late August the fuel mileage is about 29
MPG under normal use (combined city and highway with AC running) and
31 to 33 MPG highway.</p>

<p><b>September, 2003</b> -- &nbsp;Started carefully exploring what
the car can actually do (I am not avoiding passing situations as I
feel the that the engine should be pretty much broken in after 5,000
miles). The engine clearly has more power than the stock version
particularly in the 4,000 to 5,000 RPM range. Had fuel tank leak
repaired (twice). Ordered Auto Meter voltmeter, oil pressure, and
head temperature gauges. Finally had to replace fuel tank with one
from a wrecked wagon. Installed Access 8.8 mm low resistance wires
and custom gapped (wide) Bausch Platinum 2 plugs. Installed Auto
Meter voltmeter, oil pressure, and head temperature gauges in the
center console under the ashtray and just forward of the cup holders.
The Sport 'Scort was entered in a local car show. With all the big
V-8s and trucks at the show it drew no one's attention at all. If I
do such a thing again it will be at a sport compact event and I will
use some of the showmanship techniques I picked up at the show.</p>

<p><b>October, 2003</b> -- &nbsp; Installed 50% under drive pulley
and sensor for oil pressure gauge. Installed Blaupunkt Heidelberg
CD51 receiver. Fuel mileage is 29 to 33 MPG under normal use
(combined city and highway) and 33 to 36 MPG trip highway.</p>

<p><b>November, 2003</b> -- &nbsp; Purchased and installed a new set
of Falken Ziex ZE-512 195 50/15 radials. Had the wheel alignment
custom set for minimum rolling resistance with low-profile tires. The
following logic was applied. The front and rear camber should be set
to 0 degrees (straight up). In this vehicle's case, as with most
small economy cars, no camber adjustment is provided from the
factory. Fortunately, the camber was practically perfect with about
200 to 300 lb. load. The toe on the front was set to near zero with
any error towards toe out (positive). The rear toe was set to near 0
degrees with any error towards the slightest toe in (negative). The
theory is to have a zero toe under normal driving conditions both
front and rear. Since the front is under power it will try to toe in
just a bit due to the compression of the suspension bushings. The
same applies on the rear except it is being pulled by the front so it
will try to toe out a bit. The alignment was set with a normal load
in the car. The Polyurethane bushings on this car will deflect a
slight amount, but not nearly as much as stock rubber bushings
therefore, a stock auto may actually need its wheel toe set a little
in or out.</p>

<p>Cold weather has come to North Texas. However, the cold weather
decreased the fuel economy by 2 to 4 MPG. Not sure if this extends
from the cooling system overcooling, adjustments made from various
temperature sensor input, or a possible problem with the onboard
computer. To solve the winter overcooling I approached the problem in
the same manner as over the road truckers do with their diesel
trucks. Blocking air flow to the radiator. The bra has a custom piece
that fits over the upper grill for temperatures below 75 and for very
cold outdoor temperatures I place a baffle between the radiator and
the AC condenser. The target is an engine temperature of 180 to 190
as the car typically ran during the summer months. Keeping the water
and head temperature up resulted in fuel mileage still in the zone of
29 to 33 MPG just tending toward the lower figures which points
toward the intake air temperature making a difference as well.
Overcooling is an interesting problem but far easier to manage than
the much more typical overheating issues 2nd generation Escorts tend
toward.</p>

<p><b>December, 2003</b> -- Cold weather fuel mileage is holding
steadily in the 27 to 29 MPG range. Began swapping thermostats and
placing them in a hot pan of water to see what temperature they
opened and how far they opened. A problem was found with the original
thermostat as it did not open all the way. The fit seemed loose so
coolant could have been escaping past the thermostat too early and
not allowing the engine to reach operating temperature in cold
weather. I tested 4, 3 before I found one that opened at 190.</p>

<p>Replacing the thermostat achieved only a partial cure as the
coolant temperature was still not warm enough for the fuel metering
to be correct. The 1.9L uses the heater core as the primary engine
coolant circuit. The water temperature sending units are located on a
line going to the heater core) and the ECU (electronic control unit
or engine control unit -- onboard computer) needs constant flow in
that circuit to work correctly. The majority of coolant can be routed
through the radiator circuit to allow proper engine operating
temperature to be maintained. Therefore, the problem must be where
the two circuits meet: either at the thermostat or the water pump.
I&nbsp;then began to test water flow (I had plenty) and the
thermostat housing.</p>

<p>Success! The "vapor by-pass" in the thermostat housing had failed
(as indicated by a rattle in the thermostat housing detected while
the housing was removed to change out the thermostat) and was letting
a lot of coolant past the thermostat. Cold weather fuel mileage
jumped about 4 to 6 MPG (depending on whether it is highway or
combined fuel mileage) after replacing the housing with one from a
'91 Escort. The first tank full after housing replacement was just
over 34 MPG with the outdoor temperature in the 30s and 40s, the cool
air intake intact, and no baffles in front of the radiator. Once
warmed up the stock temperature gauge was rock solid in the middle of
"normal". Seems that ECU is very sensitive to not only the coolant
temperature but any coolant temperature fluctuations as well.</p>

<p>There is the clear implication that most of the sensors replaced
earlier were not causing the problem. On the other hand, no one
thought to consider the thermostat housing as a potential problem.
I&nbsp;conferred at length with both Kenny Anderson of Anderson
Automotive and Donald McAllen of Jackson Autoplex and at first the
conversation leaned toward another sensor gone bad. Only when the
evidence became overwhelming did the housing become suspect. As the
parts manager at Jackson Autoplex commented -- "We have never
ordered a thermostat housing " as they "never" seem to fail. All
other issues aside, with the car so strong at 245,000 miles,
achieving 500,000 with this vehicle seems at least plausible.</p>

<p>Replaced off-brand intake air temperature sending unit with a
genuine Motor Craft one as the car still seems a little temperature
sensitive when it is near freezing. "Cold weather" fuel mileage after
replacing the thermostat, thermostat housing, and intake air
temperature sending unit is now 32 to 34 MPG. Ordered a pyrometer
directly from Auto Meter. Ordered VDO head temperature gauge and Auto
Meter vacuum gauge from Summit Racing Equipment. Installed Auto Meter
vacuum gauge. Other items backordered.</p>

<p><b>January, 2004</b> -- Broke the fuel pressure regulator vacuum
line while adjusting and rerouting the vacuum gauge line during
Christmas break. Temporarily replaced it wit a 3/8th inch fuel line
as the stock replacement is available only from a Ford warehouse near
Detroit. The ECUs on these Mazda/Fords are finicky. The fuel mileage
went from 32-34 MPG to 26-28 MPG for the two to three weeks the
aforementioned fuel line was in place. Replaced stock fuel pressure
regulator vacuum line. Installed Auto Meter pyrometer and VDO head
temperature gauge. Contacted Phillip Wong of Intercrew Auto Salon of
Richardson, Texas about doing some custom Polyurethane bushing work
on the lateral links in the rear of the 'Scort. Was informed by
Phillip that little can be done with stock lateral arms. Alternatives
are being considered.</p>

<p><b>February, 2004</b> -- My wife and I took the 'Scort on a
roughly 300 drive to Austin, Texas for a conference. We drove the
posted speed limits. The temperature was in the 50s to 60s, the winds
calm, and the car lightly loaded. Only 2 short stops were made so the
engine temperature would remain at the correct level. We got 38.2
MPG.</p>

<p>Continued consultation with Phillip Wong of Intercrew Auto Salon
indicates a custom work on the rear lateral links will have little
benefit. The behavior of the rear end during heavy cornering is most
likely attributed to the limits of the Escort GT suspension installed
in the heavier rear of the Escort wagon and tire flex.</p>

<p><b>March, 2004</b> -- Fuel mileage continues to be in the low to
mid 30s. Took the car on a camping trip in Southeastern Oklahoma and
decided that a lighter socket (12 volt supply) mounted in the rear
cargo area would be rather handy. Drove up to Mena, Arkansas and
enjoyed the twisting roadways. Painted brake calipers Dupli-Color
Ford Red (DE1605) to match engine valve cover. Researching what
improvements can be made to the brakes for quicker, safer stops. The
Escort GT system is a great improvement over the stock rear drums,
however, cross drilled rotors and braided steel brake lines have a
reputation for improved stopping. I want the car to be as safe as
possible.</p>

<p><b>April, 2004</b> -- Rats. For the first time in over 20 years I
had an accident. I was struck in the right front corner while making
a northbound left-hand turn at a protected signal. It was a busy and
large intersection with six lanes going east and west and four lanes
heading north and south by Town East Mall in Mesquite, Texas. Both
roads had a protected turn lane. I had just witnessed several cars
making left hand turns run the red light in the intersection I had
just been through. Therefore as I approached the intersection I was
concerned about being rear ended if I did need to stop. I was
checking the rear view mirrors and the location and movement of the
cars around me. I began to approach and enter the intersection with
my left turn signal on. It was then I noted the light was yellow. I
checked the rear view mirrors to ascertain if there were any vehicles
behind me and if they were indeed going to stop. Additional concerns
were people making last minute maneuvers such as lane jumping. By the
time I saw there were not going to be any issues arising behind me I
had missed the signal light changing to red, was well into the
intersection, and felt legally obligated to clear the intersection.
The young man who hit me was six years into a military career, grew
up in a small town, and didn't own a car (he was driving his sister's
2000 BMW 325Ci). He was likely as apprehensive and unfamiliar with
Dallas county traffic as I for he continued to proceed into the
intersection from the far curbside westbound lane after all others
realized the situation and had stopped to allow the intersection to
clear. In his defense, the van in the lane beside him likely obscured
his view. We were both very polite and cordial while trading phone
numbers and insurance information. In the final analysis, if we had
both been paying a bit more attention and were less apprehensive
about the driving skills (or lack there of) exhibited by Dallas
drivers the collision would likely not have happened. By the way,
this fine upstanding young gentleman will be deployed overseas again
soon so please keep him in your prayers.</p>

<p>State Farm Insurance company acknowledged the work done on the car
so now I have to find a good body shop. I am calling local car
collectors and getting their opinions on good local body shops. After
speaking with a variety of references and several body shop managers
I have selected <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> in Dallas, Texas to do the repair work.</p>

<p><b>May, 2004</b> -- We got the car dropped off at <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> in Dallas, Texas to do the repair work.
Some additional damage was found and State Farm was contacted. The
clear corner lamp and Cork Sport front strut tower bar was delivered
and dropped off at <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> during one of my business trips in the
Dallas area. The replacement bra will have to wait a few weeks for
the paint to fully cure. In the mean time the 'Scort will wear a
white GT grill being prepared by <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a><font color="#000080">.</font> Many thanks
to Brian Purkins the manager at <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> for all his help and professional
service.</p>

<p>Cops &amp; Rodders Auto Show -- Memorial Student Center Parking
Lot, Texas A&amp;M-Commerce, May 15. It is unlikely the 'Scort will
make this appearance.</p>

<p>The 'Scort was picked up May 20th. <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> did an excellent job and I would recommend
this firm to anyone needing such services.</p>

<p><b>June, 2004</b> -- The "Scort went back to <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> to correct a problem that was not noticed
with the hood. <a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a> has done fantastic job and been very
service oriented in getting the car correct. I spent several hours
doing final tweaking to get headlights, etc. to my satisfaction.</p>

<p><b>July, 2004</b> -- Converted air conditioning system to more
available ozone friendly "freon".</p>

<p>My wife finished some removable, tailored seat covers made from
medium gray towels. With two children we have always kept towels on
the seats so spills, crumbs, and mud can be easily cleaned, but it
always looked like we had towels on the seats. The bra and black
grill was refitted to the car (it looks much better).</p>

<p>Load, hills, and a strong head wind make quite a difference.
sustained speeds of 70 MPH with the car fully loaded (wife, both kids
and baggage) lead to the following statistics during our trip to West
Texas and Kansas. 32 - 34 MPG at 70 MPH on the high plains of Kansas
with no head wind. With a strong head wind and/or hilly roads at 70
MPH resulted in 30 to 31 MPG.</p>

<p><b>August, 2004</b> -- The oil pressure sensor line (required to
run both an Auto Gauge and the stock idiot light) failed on a trip to
Rockwall, Texas while towing the <a href="ttdc_trailer.htm"><font color="#000080">Texas
Trail Dust Cycling Trailer</font></a> to participate in a bicycle
rally. It took over 12 quarts (one stop at Wal-Mart and one stop at a
truck stop to purchase oil) to drive the four miles to a mechanic
that was open on Saturday afternoon. What remained of the oil
pressure sensor line was removed and the stock oil pressure sensor
refitted. The failed line was brass, so I am searching for something
a little more robust to replace it with.</p>

<p><b>September, 2004</b> -- Oil pressure sensor line replaced with
cast steel adapter.</p>

<p><b>October, 2004</b> -- Replaced the second set of Falken Ziex
ZE-512 195 50/15 radials with Yokohama YK420 195 50/15 radials. We
shall see. The ride is pretty good but I don't think the cars handles
as well as it did with the Falken radials. The tread wear rating on
the Yokohamas is quite a bit better however.</p>

<p>Disconnected the oil cooler for the winter to see if fuel economy
on short trips improves.</p>

<p><b>November, 2004</b> -- It would seem that the Ford factory
exhaust headers from the 1986-2000 Escort GTs is pretty vulnerable to
damage. I was turning into our family MD's parking lot the day before
Thanksgiving and missed the drive entry as the curbs up and down the
street were obscured by fall leaves lying in the street. The bottom
forward radius of the headers stuck the curb hard. It was quite a
jarring experience in more ways than one. In doing so the headers
were cracked in three places near the oxygen sensor and the upper
collectors. Additionally, the twin down tubes were almost fully
collapsed at the bottom forward radius.</p>

<p>After a several phone calls I located a suitable Ford factory
1986-2000 Escort GT exhaust header. But could not schedule driving
all the way to middle of the DFW Metroplex. I mentioned I would be in
contact Monday to confirm when I would be able to pick up the header.
When I called Monday I was told the header was sold and picked up by
someone else.</p>

<p>More phone calling found a header at Red River Auto Salvage in
Sherman, Texas. The price was much better and the header only had a
small repairable crack at the oxygen sensor port.</p>

<p><b>December, 2004</b> -- Classic Muffler, Brakes and Alignments of

Wolfe City, Texas did all repairs and the final installation of
the header. Between Classic repairing the crack and final
installation I sanded and painted it with a high temperature flat
black.</p>

<p><b>January, 2005</b> -- Something about the new header is
different from the old header in regard to electrical current flow.
The Pyrometer will not register correctly. It took a choke and a
capacitor to get the former installation (same Pyrometer and sending
unit) to function correctly. No amount of tinkering seems to work
this time.</p>

<p><b>February, 2005</b> -- After some amount of time the Pyrometer
is still not working correctly. I replaced it with an Auto Meter
Air/Fuel Ratio gauge. This gauge promises to be visually interesting
at least. It's behavior will be noted over the next few weeks. During
our annual to Austin, Texas for a technology conference my wife and I
took the 'Scort and covered a total of just under 700 mile. We drove
the posted speed limits. The temperature was in the 60s to 70s, the
winds calm, and the car again lightly loaded. We stopped when we
desired and enjoyed the trip. We ranged 34.4 to 36.1 MPG per fill-up
by using the Auto Meter Air/Fuel Ratio and the Auto Meter Vacuum
gauges as discussed in March 2005.</p>

<p><b>March, 2005</b> -- I had noted some time ago that most newer
mini-vans, SUVs, wagons etc. had a nonskid, protective surface on the
rear bumper right in front of the hatch opening. Seemed like a great
idea to me so I began a search for a company that would be will to
apply bed lining material to the rear bumper. <a href="http://www.rhinoliningsofmckinney.com/"><font color="#000080">Rhino
Linings of McKinney</font></a> was willing to do the job. They did an
excellent job and were a joy to work with. Installation was a snap as
I removed the rear bumper on the way to work, left it with <a href="http://www.rhinoliningsofmckinney.com/"><font color="#000080">Rhino
Linings of McKinney</font></a> for the day<font color="#000080">,</font> and reinstalled the completed bumper on the way home from
work. The sprayed rear bumper has absolutely been worth the effort as
we frequently are hauling dogs, bikes, musical instruments, etc. I
highly recommend <a href="http://www.rhinoliningsofmckinney.com/"><font color="#000080">Rhino
Linings of McKinney</font></a> should you chose to do this
modification.</p>

<p>I have learned a thing or two on how to improve the fuel economy
by reading the Auto Meter Air/Fuel Ratio and the Auto Meter Vacuum
gauges. The ECU (engine control unit) seems to have 3 "modes" of
engine operation as indicated by the air/fuel mixture and vacuum. The
air/fuel ratio will constantly vary from lean to rich during city
driving and when the engine is cold. When the engine is under load
(driving into a head wind at 70 MPH) or at or near wide open throttle
(WOT) the air/fuel ratio indicates a rich condition. During a
prolonged period of constant partial throttle when the engine is warm
the ECU will cause a lean burn condition as  indicated by the
air/fuel mixture gauge. If one can keep the acceleration vary gradual
(vacuum pressure no greater than -5 inches of mercury and braking to
a minimum it is possible to keep the ECU in the "lean burn" mode. The
cruise control seems to be setup to keep the engine burning lean as
the rich air/fuel mixture will not come into play until the speed has
dropped to near 10 MPH lower than set cruise speed. Keeping it in the
leanest burning mode can be a challenge as hills and head winds at
highway speeds can rob enough power that the ECU richens the air/fuel
mixture to maintain speed. Overall I highly recommend installation of
Auto Meter Air/Fuel Ratio and the Auto Meter Vacuum gauges for those
interested in getting maximum economy from your Escort.</p>

<p><b>April, 2005</b> -- This has been an interesting month. As the
weather got warmer engine performance got weaker. This was brought to
my attention when I turned on the AC and the car could no longer make
it up a hill without being "fire walled". The car spent almost 3 weeks
with Kenny Anderson, owner, Anderson Automotive, Trenton, Texas under
going a variety of tests. I&nbsp;would drop the car off in the
morning as I arrived in town for work and Kenny would have the car
back together by afternoon so I could drive it home. Finally it was
discovered that the pin for the Escort-Focus Performance 50%
under-drive pulley located on the crankshaft had sheared allowing the
pulley to rotate about a quarter turn. The ECU (engine control unit)
thought the piston were located somewhere other than where they were.
It was amazing the car ran at all. I am most suspicious this happened
in November 2005 when I ran over the curb with the car.</p>

<p>Removed the oil cooler permanently as fuel economy has improved
with the car running at full potential with the aforementioned pulley
situation corrected.</p>

<p><b>May, 2005</b> -- There is a point when everything involved in a
project suddenly and clearly come together. The removal of the oil
cooler, amazingly enough, has had a great effect on the overall fuel
economy with a particularly profound effect on the city (short trip)
fuel consumption. The ECU (engine control unit) seems to be very
sensitive to engine temperature and the cooled oil was some how
skewing the ECU's sensor interpretation and causing the ECU to run a
richer mixture than needed. I can't fully explain why removing the
oil cooler made a difference, it just did (John 9:24-27). Near as I
can deduce one of the two following situations was occurring: 1) the
engine didn't reach operating temperature in "X" amount of time and
the ECU assumed the car is operating in very cold temperatures and
kept the mixture rich for an extended period of time or 2) the oil
cooler was keeping the engine below some temperature threshold and
the ECU kept the mixture rich until that threshold was reached. An
oil cooler, even with an oil cooler thermostat, is not a recommended
modification to the 1.9L powered Escort if fuel economy is a key
issue.</p>

<p>In general, the overall fuel economy has now actually improved
from the level of the stock vehicle when first purchased (31 to 32
MPG on the daily commute as compared to the current 33 to 35 MPG on
the daily commute). Highway mileage has ranged from 36 to 40 MPG. The
wagon's current fuel usage figures are an improvement over the
original EPA fuel economy estimate of 29 City and 36 Highway (keep in
mind these were made when the national speed limit was 55 MPH).
Additionally the 'Scort is getting as good or better fuel mileage
than any modern gasoline powered station wagon according to the
<a href="http://www.fueleconomy.gov/"><font color="#000080">Federal
Fuel Economy Website</font></a>.</p>

<p>I have a research based doctorate so I feel an obligation to
explain the means by which I arrived at the above figures. Fuel
economy was calculated by filling up at the same pump each time and
filling the tank as fully as possible with the car in the same
position relative to the gasoline pump. The number of gallons needed
to fill the tank was then compared to the mileage on the trip meter.
Fuel usage data was gathered for a little over 5 weeks. The entire
MPG range was  from 30 MPG&nbsp;to 40 MPG. The most extreme values
(the 30.6 MPG and the 40.2 MPG) were discarded as outliers and not
included in the final analysis. The remainder of the fill-ups fell in
a range between 33 MPG and 39 MPG. The conservative figure of 33 to
35 MPG on the commute was arrived at by comparing the relatively
short 5 week time period to several years of observed past
performance and adjusting accordingly.</p>
<p>As I am reviewing this project it seems appropriate to note the engine is running very well and all longevity and fuel economy modifications appear to be justified. A half million miles seem very obtainable.</p>
<p><b>June, 2005</b> -- I installed a second 10" Hayden pusher fan on
the driver side of the AC condenser to increase the amount of airflow
at low speeds and compensate for the loss of the oil cooler. It is
hoped that the additional airflow through the AC condenser will help
the cooling function of the climate control system.</p>

<p>I was not at all happy or impressed the Yokohama YK420 195 50/15
radials in tread wear (as they are faring no better than the Falkens
they replaced) or performance (dry adhesion and having to run a low
PSI). I changed back to the proven Falken Ziex ZE-512 195 50/15
radials while the Yokohamas were still under a mileage warranty.</p>

<p>Installed a Rockford Fosgate subwoofer system (purchase in a
"going out of business sale").</p>

<p>Rats. Paris, Texas -- I was towing the <a href="ttdc_trailer.htm"><font color="#000080">Texas
Trail Dust Cycling Trailer</font></a><font color="#000080">
</font>and was headed to a Cub Scout campout with cub scout (my son)
and camping gear when an older gentleman in a Chevy half ton stopped
at the end of an entrance ramp. Needless to say with all that weight
the 'Scort did not stop in time. Damage was minimal. The bad news was
the hood was creased just enough the  repair cost was going to be
about $700 to $800. A new after-market hood is about half that price.
The car now has a carbon fiber/fiber glass hood with a reverse hood
scoop from <a href="http://www.zx2racing.com/store/"><font color="#000080">ZXTuner</font></a>.
My wife claims she likes the new hood because the carbon weave causes
less glare while driving than the stock white hood.</p>

<p><b>July, 2005</b> -- Installed blue LED accent lighting under the
dash and front seats.</p>

<p><b>August, 2005</b> -- The carbon fiber/fiber glass hood has had
an interesting benefit. I expected more consistent coolant
temperatures with the reverse hood scoop during hot weather and this
was been the case. However the air conditioner has been operating
much better during the hottest time of the year with consistent duct
temperatures of 35 to 45 degrees. in the past I was often fortunate
to have air duct temperatures in the 50s during August
afternoons.</p>

<p><b>September, 2005</b> -- Gas pricing got the best of me and I
purchased a motorcycle. A <a href="kawasaki_ninja_250.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Kawasaki
Ninja 250</font></a> that with drivetrain modifications gets between
60 to 80 MPG.</p>

<p><b>October, 2005</b> --</p>

<p><b>November, 2005</b> -- The cooling system is still doing well
and holding coolant operating temperatures with the reverse hood
scoop at levels only slightly below that of the summer.</p>

<p><b>December, 2005</b> -- The 'Scort passed the 300,000 mile mark
and is still running strong. The family had dinner out to commemorate
the milestone. Performed final adjustments to carbon fiber hood.</p>

<p><b>January, 2006</b> --</p>

<p><b>February, 2006</b> --</p>

<p><b>March, 2006</b> -- Took the family on a day trip to Waco, Texas
during Spring Break week. We visited the <a href="http://www.texasranger.org/"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Texas
Ranger Hall of Fame and Museum</font></a>, the <a href="http://www.drpeppermuseum.com/"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Dr
Pepper Museum</font></a>, and the <a href="http://elitecirclegrille.com/"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Elite
Circle Grille</font></a>.</p>

<center>

<p><b><img src="Escort%20in%20Front%20of%20the%20Elite%20Circle%20Grill%201.JPG" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="480" width="640"></b></p>

<p><b><img src="Escort%20in%20Front%20of%20the%20Elite%20Circle%20Grill%202.JPG" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="480" width="640"></b></p>

<p><b>The Sport 'Scort at sunset in front of the Waco Elite Cafe, now
named the Elite Circle Grille, located on the Circle in Waco,
Texas</b></p></center>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><b>April, 2006</b> --</p>

<p><b>May, 2006</b> --</p>

<p><b>June, 2006</b> -- Replaced alternator. The new one from
<a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
Auto Parts</font></a> squeaks.</p>

<p><b>July, 2006</b> -- Joleen (the wife) was offered a math position
at Trenton ISD (where I work) for the second time in three years.
This time she accepted the offer.</p>

<p><b>August, 2006</b> -- We began commuting to Trenton from Commerce
as a family (the kids are attending school in Trenton). We will be
doing this until we sell all our properties in Commerce and purchase
a house in Trenton. The <a href="kawasaki_ninja_250.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Kawasaki
Ninja 250</font></a> is now a recreational vehicle.</p>

<p><b>September, 2006</b> -- </p>

<p><b>October, 2006</b> -- The head gasket failed on the engine and placed the 
'Sort at Anderson Automotive in Trenton, Texas for a time.&nbsp; Head gaskets 
rarely fail on their own but this one did.&nbsp; On a good note Kenny Anderson 
said the engine looked amazingly good as the score marks are still very visible 
on the cylinder walls after 75,000 miles.</p>

<p><b>November, 2006</b> -- </p>

<p><b>December, 2006</b> -- </p>

<p><b>January, 2007</b> --</p>

<p><b>February, 2007</b> -- 325,000 miles and running great.</p>

<p><b>March, 2007</b> -- </p>

<p><b>April, 2007</b> -- The original starter quit at about 327,800 miles.&nbsp; 
Nathaniel (My youngest and I were in Terrell, Texas setting up for a Wing and a 
Prayer gig at Cornerstone Baptist church. "Wing and a Prayer" is the music 
ministry outreach of the Greenville Chapter of the Christian Motorcyclists 
Association (King's Kruizers).&nbsp;&nbsp; We were pushed off by members of the 
King's Kruizers and got back home with no problems.&nbsp; Anderson Automotive of 
Trenton, Texas replaced the starter the next business day.</p>

<p><b>May, 2007</b> -- </p>

<p><b>June, 2007</b> -- The 'Scort surpasses 330,000 miles and running great.</p>

<p><b>July, 2007</b> --&nbsp; The rear suspension seem less planted on bumpy 
roads for some reason.&nbsp; I ask Anderson Automotive of Trenton to look over 
the situation but nothing is obvious.</p>

<p><b>August, 2007</b> -- The squeaky
<a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
Auto Parts</font></a> alternator fails.&nbsp; The former
<a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
Auto Parts</font></a> had a life time warranty, but for some reason the counter 
help at the Bonham
<a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
Auto Parts</font></a> can not find the my purchase in the national data base.&nbsp; 
When I call the Commerce store, the inept boobs working there find my purchase 
but claim I bought the wrong alternator and they will not honor the warranty.&nbsp; 
I take the next opportunity to travel to Commerce and discuss the matter with 
the manager whom I know and e clears the matter up quickly.&nbsp; A shame the 
Commerce manager does not work at the Bonham store.&nbsp; The new alternator 
also has a life time warranty and squeaks slightly less.</p>

<p><b>September, 2007</b> -- I hear a rattle from the rear of the car when 
traversing rough pavement. When 
Nathaniel and I stop to run some errands at the Commerce Wal-Mart I look under the rear of the car and note the 
passenger side anti-sway bar clamp is missing.&nbsp; I know that with a 15 year 
old car parts are going to be difficult to track down so I call and schedule an appointment 
at Anderson Automotive of Trenton for repairs from the Wal-Mart..&nbsp; Matt, a mechanic at 
Anderson Automotive, tracked down one of three remaining new brackets in Ford's 
national database.&nbsp; Nathaniel and I drive the 'Scort carefully home.</p>

<p>I look at the underside of car that evening and discover the bracket had 
fatigued and cracked.&nbsp; I have Matt order one of other last two new brackets 
just in case.&nbsp; Once the car is in the shop Matt and Kenny find that the 
driver side anti-sway bar clamp had indeed fatigued, cracked, and needed 
replacing.&nbsp; Additionally, the lower right forward lower control arm had 
also cracked.</p>

<p>I called <a href="http://www.corksport.com"><font color="#000080">Cork
Sport</font></a> and spoke with the owner.&nbsp; They have found that when they 
build up a rear suspension they need to reinforce the cheap stamped steel stock 
forward lower control arms with 1/8" steel plating to keep flexing to a minimum.&nbsp; 
Kenny Anderson made plans to reinforce the lower control arms.</p>

<p>The 'Scort surpasses 335,000 miles.</p>

<p><b>October, 2007</b> -- Once all the rear fatigued suspension parts are 
replaced and put back together the car had back it's solid ride back.</p>

<p><b>November, 2007</b> --&nbsp; </p>

<p> <b><i>Trip Report: November 3, 2007</i></b> 
--&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="2007_Houston_IMS.htm"><font color="#000080">
Houston International Motorcycle Show Trip</font></a>.</p>

<p> <b><i>Trip Report: November 3-4, 2007</i></b> 
--&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="2007_Lone_Star_Rally.htm"><font color="#000080">
Lone Star Rally Trip</font></a>.</p>

<p><b>December, 2007</b> -- Replaced the worn clutch master cylinder.&nbsp; 
However the gearbox is still rather "notchy".</p>

<p> <b><i>December 24, 2007-January 1, 2008</i></b> 
--&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="Christmas_in_Branson_2007.htm"><font color="#000080">
Christmas in Branson 2007 Trip</font></a>.</p>

<p>The 'Scort surpasses 340,000 miles on the Branson trip.</p>

<p><b>January, 2008</b> --&nbsp; Tinkering about on the Government fuel mileage 
website I noted that the original figures for the 1993 Escort had been down 
graded to 25 MPG City and 33 MPG Highway.&nbsp; Considering that the ol' 'Scort 
often gets 34+ MPG Highway I feel the car is doing great.</p>

<p><b>February, 2008</b> --&nbsp; During some hard cornering on FM 815 I noted 
some odd suspension "clang" toward the front.</p>



<p><b>March, 2008</b> -- Nathaniel and I took the Escort to&nbsp;<a href="http://www.shermanpowersports.com/"><font color="#000080">Sherman Power 
</font></a><a href="http://www.shermanpowersports.com/"><font color="#000080">Sports</font></a> take 
delivery of the&nbsp;<a href="2008_kawasaki_ninja_250_pickup.html"><font color="#000080">black 2008 Ninja 250R</font></a>.</p><p style="text-align: center;"><img style="width: 640px; height: 426px;" alt="" src="Ninjette%20II%20Pickup/Ready%20to%20head%20to%20Trenton.JPG"></p><p style="text-align: center;">Ready to head to Trenton.</p><p style="text-align: center;"></p><p><b>April, 2008</b> --&nbsp; The 'Scort surpasses 345,000 miles.&nbsp; 
Continued trips down the sorry wash-board road we live on caused the oil pressure 
sensor line (required to run both an Auto Gauge and the stock idiot light) to 
fail again after about 100,000 miles as I was just headed out to practice with 
the Christian blues/rock band <font><a href="http://www.wingandaprayerband.org/"><font color="#000080">Wing and a Prayer</font></a><font color="#000080">.</font></font>&nbsp; 
The Escort dumped all 4 quarts on the last portion of Tiger Lane and FM 815.&nbsp; 
I turned around in front of the high school and turned the engine off to coast 
as much as possible back to the garage.&nbsp; The following Thursday Kenny and 
Matt of Anderson Automotive got the 'Scort and towed it to the shop to be 
repaired.&nbsp; <font><a href="http://www.mobil1.com"><font color="#000080">
Mobil 1</font></a></font> 0W-30 is highly recommended as the little car still 
runs like a champ even after being oil starved for a bit.&nbsp; I will have to 
remember and have the line just replaced every 75,000 to 100,000 miles or so.</p>

<p><b>May, 2008</b> -- On a trip to provide training for Red Oak ISD Joleen 
noted the oil pressure gauge suddenly quit.&nbsp; She promptly pulled off US 75 
in Allen, Texas and phoned.&nbsp; We were able to diagnose that the gauge or oil 
pressure sending unit had failed so the trip continued.&nbsp; The sending unit 
was eventually determined to be the culprit and was replaced just before the end 
of June 2008.</p>

<p><b>June, 2008</b> -- The old faithful Escort got new front disks, machined 
rear disks, and brake pads all the way around.&nbsp; The wheels were aligned and 
new Falken Ziex ZE-512 195 50/15 radials are placed front and rear.&nbsp; Just 
before the <a href="Yeager_Tennessee_Summer_Vacation_2008.htm"><font color="#000080">
Family Vacation</font></a> trip a new Auto Meter liquid cooled engine head temperature gauge 
replaced the VDO unit designed for air cooled engines.</p><p><b><i>June 14-15, 2008</i></b><i> </i>-- <font><a href="http://www.wingandaprayerband.org/"><font color="#000080">Wing and a Prayer</font></a></font> 
played for a Sunday morning <a href="http://www.cmausa.org/"><font color="#000080">
Christian Motorcyclists Association</font></a><font color="#000080">
</font><font color="#000000">(CMA)</font> biker service at&nbsp;the
<a href="http://www.rotrally.com/"><font color="#000080">Republic Of Texas Biker 
Rally</font></a><font color="#000080">
</font>in Austin, Texas.
&nbsp;I took&nbsp;the&nbsp;<font><a href="file:///F:/Web%20Page%20Stuff/escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080">Escort</font></a></font> 
in order to transport my musical equipment.</p><p style="text-align: center;">
<img src="CMA%202008/Wing%20and%20a%20Prayer%20at%20ROT%20Rally%202008/The%20%27Scort%20is%20loaded%20and%20ready%20to%20hit%20the%20road%20back%20to%20Trenton.JPG" border="0" height="426" width="640"></p><p style="text-align: center;">
The 'Scort is loaded and ready to hit the road back to Trenton.</p><p></p>

<p> <b><i>June 29, 2008-July 13, 2008</i></b> 
--&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="Yeager_Tennessee_Summer_Vacation_2008.htm"><font color="#000080">
Family Vacation in Tennessee 2008</font></a>.</p>

<p>The 'Scort surpasses 350,000 miles on the Tennessee Summer Vacation trip only 150,000 miles left to the half a million mile mark.</p>

<p> <b><i>July 29, 2008-August 2, 2008</i></b> 
--&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="Yeager_Arkansas_Summer_Vacation_2008.htm"><font color="#000080">
Family Arkansas Trip 2008</font></a>.</p>

<p><b>August, 2008</b> -- </p>

<p>The 'Scort surpasses 355,000 miles on the Arkansas trip.</p>

<p><b>September, 2008</b> -- </p>

<p><b>October, 2008</b> -- </p>

<p><b>November, 2008</b> --&nbsp; Three strikes and you're out!&nbsp; The oil 
pressure sensor line (required to run both an Auto Gauge and the stock idiot 
light) to failed yet again after less than 20,000 miles as Joleen was just 
headed back from her graduate math class at the Texas A&amp;M-Commerce Metroplex 
Center.&nbsp; The line failed jus as she was coming into Copeville, Texas so she 
pulled into the Exxon and phoned me.&nbsp; Fortunately everyone at the Exxon was 
very helpful and assisted her in everyway.&nbsp; Unfortunately, I and the kids 
were only 2 songs into a concert (<a href="http://www.pavlo.net/"><font color="#000080">Pavlo</font></a>).&nbsp; 
I asked Aaron (Victoria's boy friend) and my folks to assure the kids got home 
and headed to Farmersville to survey the situation and take Joleen home.&nbsp; 
It became clear that the Escort lost most of its 4 quarts and was not going to 
hold until we got home.&nbsp; I took Joleen home and tracked down a nearby 
U-Haul to rent a tow-dolly the next day to get the Escort back to Trenton for 
repairs.</p>

<p>Thursday morning I managed to squeeze in a trip to&nbsp;Copeville to get 
the Escort to Anderson Automotive for repairs.&nbsp; Only the Auto Meter sending 
unit was installed to decrease the complexity and likelihood of future failure 
as there is no secondary warning system.&nbsp; I attended the next evening's
<a href="http://www.pavlo.net/"><font color="#000080">
Pavlo</font></a> concert (<a href="kawasaki_ninja_250_journal_2008.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Kawasaki
Ninja 250 Journal 2008</font></a> <b><i>Ride Report: November 13, 2008</i></b> ) 
at the Terrell Entertainment Series as the Greenville series has reciprocity 
with Terrell.</p><p>The 'Scort surpasses 360,000 miles.</p><p><b>December, 2008</b> --&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><b>January, 2009</b> --&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><b>February, 2009</b>
--&nbsp; Victoria's boy friend, Aaron (who lives across the street) was
visiting and parked his car at the bottom of the driveway. &nbsp;Aaron
has been asked to park by the tilt-bed trailer and had been very good
to do so. &nbsp;I was in a hurry to get to <font><a href="http://www.wingandaprayerband.org/"><font color="#000080">Wing and a Prayer</font></a></font>
practice, it was dark, the 'Scort has dark window tint, and I did not
note
Aaron had not parked in the usual spot. &nbsp;Crunch! &nbsp;The Escort
had a hole in the rear bumper. &nbsp;Rats, no repairing that
bumper.&nbsp; Considering how old the car is and that the bumper skin
is
plastic it is going to be a difficult one to rectify.</p>
<p style="text-align: center;"><img src="Escort/Hole in rear bumper detail.jpg" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p style="text-align: center;">The rear bumper with hole during a family trip.</p><p style="text-align: center;">&nbsp;</p><p><b>March, 2009</b>
--&nbsp; Several dead ends on the "repair/replace the rear bumper" project.
&nbsp;Most bumpers I have tracked down were in worse shape than what I
had and a new one, when you could locate one, commanded top dollar. &nbsp;I  left multiple messages and got
no call backs from "nearby" location of both Service King Collision
Repair and  <a href="http://www.maaco.com/"><font color="#000080">Maaco</font></a>. &nbsp;It would seem they both have all the business
they need.</p><p>The 'Scort surpasses 365,000 miles.</p><p> <b><i>March 15, 2009-</i></b><b><i>March 19, 2009</i></b>&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="Yeager_San_Antonio_Spring_Break_Trip_2009.html"><font color="#000080">
Family Spring Break 2009 Trip to San Antonio</font></a>.</p>

<p>We finally located and purchased a new rear bumper in excellent condition for&nbsp;t<font color="#000080"><span style="color: black;">he 'Scort</span></font>&nbsp;in southern Austin at&nbsp;<font><a href="http://www.capitolcityimports.com/"><font color="#000080">Capital City Auto Parts</font></a></font> while on the way back from our <a href="Yeager_San_Antonio_Spring_Break_Trip_2009.html"><font color="#000080">
Family Spring Break 2009 Trip to San Antonio</font></a>. &nbsp;The following day Victoria and I did some shopping, ran some errands, and dropped the rear bumper by <a href="http://www.rhinoliningsofmckinney.com/"><font color="#000080">Rhino
Linings of McKinney</font></a>
to reapply the nonskid, protective surface on the
rear bumper in front of the hatch opening.&nbsp; Once back home the
rear mud flaps rear&nbsp;installed on the replacement bumper.&nbsp;</p>



<p align="center">
<img src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/The%20Escort%20with%20its%20replacement%20rear%20bumper%201.JPG" border="0" height="480" width="640"></p>




<p align="center">
<img src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/The%20Escort%20with%20its%20replacement%20rear%20bumper%202.JPG" border="0" height="480" width="640"></p><p align="center">The Escort with its replacement rear bumper.</p>

<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>

<p align="left">The last Saturday in March was Junior/Senior Prom Night at 
Trenton.&nbsp; Our daughter, Victoria, was going to Leonard, Texas to a new hair 
salon to get an &quot;up do&quot; for Prom night and, bless her heart, got tangled up with a dumpster trying to adjust the 
car in a &quot;head-in&quot; parking space and not hit a truck that was parked 
out out in the roadway (something we don't &quot;run into&quot; much 
out here in the country).&nbsp; At least the car looked good for 8 days.</p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/A%20week%20later%20at%20the%20Leonard%20beauty%20shop%201.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/A%20week%20later%20at%20the%20Leonard%20beauty%20shop%202.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">A week later at the Leonard beauty shop.</p>

<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/The%20Dumpster%202.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/The%20Dumpster%201.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">The &quot;Kelly&quot; green dumpster was almost in the road as 
well.</p>

<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Expensive%20hair/DSCN0854.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">
<img border="0" src="Expensive%20hair/DSCN1485.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>

<p align="center">Victoria, with expensive hair, and prom date, Aaron Hass.</p>

<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>

<p><b>April, 2009 </b>&nbsp;--&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><b>May, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>

<p><b>June, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp; Several dead ends on the new &quot;repair/replace 
the rear bumper&quot; project.&nbsp; It seems that one can no longer find a 
replacement rear bumper for the second generation Escort wagons.&nbsp; The only 
options are junk yards and/or retrofitting a 1997+ rear bumper.</p>
<p>The 'Scort surpasses 370,000 miles.</p>
<p><b>June 25, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp; Found a usable rear bumper at <a href="http://www.ennisauto.com/"><font color="#000080">Ennis Auto Recyclers</font></a> Nathaniel and I drove the Escort to Ennis and picked up a front bumper, rear bumper, and some assorted small items.</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort rear bumper take two/Ennis Auto Recyclers.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><a href="http://www.ennisauto.com/"><font color="#000080">Ennis Auto Recyclers</font></a>.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort rear bumper take two/A full cargo area.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">A full cargo area.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p><b>July, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp; I found a location that specializes in restorations right here in Trenton. I had pretty much ignored them due to the name, but happened to note they were listed under &quot;body shops&quot; in the Fannin County yellow pages and decided to investigate. While <a href="http://www.jjvolkswagon.com/"><font color="#000080">J &amp; J Volkswagon</font></a><a href="ttdc_trailer.htm"></a> focus is on classic air cooled Volkswagens they do body work and restorations on anything from old trucks to Chevelles and El Caminos. The quality of their work is excellent and their pricing reasonable.</p>
<p>The air conditioning compressor failed again. Anderson Automotive replaced it and it was nice to have the Escort's cabin cooling properly once again.</p>
<p><b>August, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p><b>August 11, 2009</b>&nbsp; --&nbsp;Inexperience and rough roads conspired to against Victoria as she was in the process of picking up some of her friends for a dinner outing in McKinney. Praise God all the girls were fine. Victoria was very distraught as one can imagine.</p>
<p>Victoria, Courtney Haynes, and Amanda Magela  were pulling away from Courtney's home on their way to pickup two more friends. Courtney's dogs being their usual friendly rambunctious selves gave chase. As the girls turned right onto a rough downhill section of Fannin County Road 4975 the dogs cut the corner and began running along side the wagon. In an attempt to avoid hitting the dogs and leaving the dogs behind Victoria accelerated to the posted 30 MPH. Shortly after entering CR 4975 she feared she might hit a dog or was too close to the right side of the road. Victoria then steered to the left and the rear began to come around to the right. The rough domed road surface and downhill heading of the car caused the amplitude car's the rear correction to go beyond the intended arc. She then corrected right causing the car's rear to slide to the left with an increased amplitude. Victoria continued to counter each ever increasing amplitude of the car's rear oscillation for another twenty-five yards. Finally physics prevailed after 4 cycles and than the Escort fully rotated sending the front and right side in to the scrub cedars and brush lining the road.</p>
<p>Victoria did a lot right such as steering in the direction she wanted the automobile to go and not locking up the brakes. What she couldn't relay was if she released the accelerator.</p>
<p>Both doors and both passenger side quarter panels were damaged. The front driver's side fender was damaged. The front bumper was shattered and the hood cracked. The passenger side front wheel was moved rearward about 4&quot; to 6&quot; rearward and the gap between the front and rear passenger side doors spread indicating heavy frame damage to the right front corner and a slight bowing of the passenger cabin..</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1367.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">The posted speed is too high for local Fannin County road conditions.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1368.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">From the driveway looking toward the accident scene.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1369.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">Where the incident began.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1370.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">Skid marks in the gravel.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1372.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1374.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">The location of the Escort's rotation in to the cedar and brush.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1373.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">Where the Escort came to rest.</p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1376.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1360.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1361.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1363.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1378.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center"><img src="Escort/Escort Death/DSCN1379.JPG" width="640" height="480"></p>
<p align="center">The end at 372,200.7 miles, well short of the half a million mile goal.</p>
<p>August 26, 2009 -- <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> insurance called about the settlement on the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a>. It was under what I expected by a fare amount considering we had spent over $1500 in the last three months on AC and body repairs. I realize that the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a> is an old car and many miles of pavement have passed below it. However, we have  improved it well beyond the typical little wagon. When questioned on the amount the lady on the other end of the phone, with an accusing undertone, questioned why we would spend so much money on a 1993. I felt like saying &quot;Because I am a mentally unbalanced sociopath who is 'Googling' you right this moment.&quot; I didn't. What I did mention was  there are are almost no small wagons available and we felt no need to dispatch a perfectly good car that fits our needs just to toss our money in the market place by purchasing a new car simply because it is typical behavior.</p>
<p>The small amount of the proposed settlement and the increase in our insurance rates would likely lead to an overall financial loss over the next few years compared with not filing the claim. I then called our <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> agent, <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman</font></a>, and expressed my displeasure. <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman</font></a> has a reputation of truly sticking up for her clients. Her staff said they would look into the situation and see what they could do.</p>
<p>August 27, 2009 -- I hate insurance companies, but like <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman</font></a> my <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> insurance agent. <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie</font></a> was less than impressed by the shoddy treatment I got from <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> corporate representatives. We have a solid long term relationship with a special insurance agent who stood up for us by requesting I fax twenty-two pages of receipts and documentation on all the modifications done to the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a> to her office. <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie</font></a> additionally planned to forward a sampling of the emails I have received expressing how the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a> had inspired an international readership to keep their cars operating. The plan, in part, is to make a case for the cultural impact of the loss of an automotive icon there by upping the settlement on the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a>. I am just going to stand back and let <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie</font></a> handle the negotiations. Victoria thought she just wrecked a car when in fact she derailed a cultural movement.</p>
<p>August 28-30, 2009 -- The <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> drama continues with several phone calls and emails to the <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman Agency</font></a>.</p>
<p>August 31, 2009 -- <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman</font></a> our <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> agent has made such a case for the uniqueness and exemplary condition of the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a> that<font color="#000080"> </font><a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> has hired a consultant from <a href="http://www.barrett-jackson.com/"><font color="#000080">Barrett-Jackson</font></a> to appraise  the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a>. The <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman Agency</font></a> is more than willing to put in the extra effort for their customers.</p>
<p><b>September, 2009</b> -- </p>
<p>September 1, 2009 -- John Cook of the <a href="http://www.barrett-jackson.com/"><font color="#000080">Barrett-Jackson</font></a> Arizona office called and got some information. From his tone the situation didn't sound promising.</p>
<p>September 3, 2009 --  The morning brought more phone messages and emails from the <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman Agency</font></a>. Shortly after noon <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie Turman</font></a> called to report that after the deductible <a href="http://www.statefarm.com"><font color="#000080">Sate Farm</font></a> was offering a  $4045.78 settlement for the <a href="escort_wagon.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Escort</font></a>. While I am not turning cartwheels it isn't bad for a car with over 370,000 miles on the clock and if a plaid leisure suit clad used car salesman was to sell  it  would bring maybe:  $2,000 to $2,500. A solid relationship with a agent like <a href="http://www.dixiet.com/"><font color="#000080">Dixie</font></a> is well worth cultivating.</p>
<p align="center"><strong>-- The End --</strong></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Sellected Email Condolences</b></font></p>
<p>Date: Wed, 12 Aug 2009 21:33:16 -0700 (PDT)<br>
  From: Tyler Fleury</p>
<p>Wow... What a shame... I think it&rsquo;s still fixable...  just might be a lot of work to get it back to where it was... I actually just  started working on mine again,&nbsp;mine is all torn apart getting the new  electrical harness for the 1.8.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 12 Aug 2009 23:34:17 -0700 (PDT)<br>
From: Allan Frank</p>
<p>Sorry to hear about your unfortunate occurrence. <br>
  I used to have a 93 scort wagon just like yours. <br>
  We loved our escort but it was a manual and the wife really wanted an  automatic.<br>
  We went with a 2003 ford focus wagon (ZTW) with&nbsp; a dohc engine. It&rsquo;s  really nice; leather, power windows, and moon roof. Although it doesn't do as  good as the scort did with mpg. For one thing the tires on the ZTW are twice as  wide as the scorts so that is a major factor. But it corners like a dream.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 12 Aug 2009 23:48:31 -0700 (PDT)<br>
From: Iam DEggman </p>
<p>Hey--<br>
  I'm sorry to hear about your wagon's demise.&nbsp; At least the passengers were  ok.&nbsp;<br>
  My wagon's currently awaiting a new transmission, and is parked at a friend's  ranch.&nbsp; In the meantime, I've been driving a '98 ZX2 that I picked up at  the end of February.&nbsp;<br>
  Take care, <br>
  Dutch</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Thu, 13 Aug 2009 06:42:49 -0400<br>
From: Michael Druckenmiller Jr.</p>
<p>Well, really glad to hear no one got hurt. Still sad to hear  the escort is gone... was such a cool car, and so much time put into it man.<br>
  I sold mine a few years ago, in great condition, now it's been wrecked too... and with the cash for clunkers thing those would be hard to come by... I think they want to do away with the older cars and their parts, forcing people to have to buy the new models.<br>
  Well, take care, and god bless...<br>
  -Mike-</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Thu, 13 Aug 2009 08:39:28 -0500<br>
From: Colton Brownell</p>
<p>I'm so very sorry for your loss.&nbsp; I've always thought you've done a great  job with that wagon.&nbsp; You never tried to make it a hot rod.&nbsp; You just  made it a nice, clean, efficient,&nbsp;and sporty car.<br>
  -Colton<br>
  (FEOA.net - colton_levi)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Thu, 13 Aug 2009 09:49:02 -0500<br>
  From: Daniel Wiesner<br>
  </p>
<p>Sorry to hear that man.&nbsp; Yours was always one  of my favorite escorts.&nbsp; I lost mine a few years back.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Sat, 15 Aug 2009 08:15:44 -0500<br>
From:&nbsp; D.  Hadler</p>
<p>Sorry to hear that the Escort has been decommissioned, it just goes to show that, when cared for, they will run until an outside force brings them down. :(</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Tue, 25 Aug 2009 17:55:52 -0700<br>
  From: John Harjo</p>
<p>It was with deep sadness I read of the end of the line for your Escort. I have  been following your updates for about a year now...But most importantly,  thankfully nobody was hurt. Your car was an inspiration for me to rebuild my  motor, I knew the engine meltdown was coming and that happened on March 28 of  this year. My mechanic had a local shop do the rebuild and we are at about 7000  miles since rebuild. My car is nowhere close to being the showcase yours was,  but I wish to tip my hat and salute you for the inspiration and dedication. It  has meant something in the Escort World. I was so sad to get on your site today  and see that! I've&nbsp;owned&nbsp;my car since October, 1997. It was also  built in Mexico in July, 1993, so we are sister cars. Condolences and thank you  for the great website!!!<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Sincerely,<br>
John Harjo &nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 26 Aug 2009 22:10:42 -0700<br>
  From: John Harjo</p>
<p>I will be keeping my Escort for a long time to come.  I'm also a musician in about five bands...I've had this car fully loaded with  fuel, two adult musicians, keyboards, guitars speakers, etc... When the motor  was being done I enjoyed the rentals&nbsp;Hyundai Accent and 07 Focus. I also  went to Germany last month and fully enjoyed the 09 TDI Golf. I'm hoping to buy  another car new- maybe the 10 TDI Golf when it gets here. The TDI stuff almost  gets Prius like numbers- saw a TDI Jetta versus Prius report on the net- the  Prius got 45 and the Jetta 44 Highway. Happy car hunting.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
Sincerely,<br>
John Harjo &nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 9 Sep 2009 20:25:26 -0700 (PDT)<br>
  From: Chuck Boss<br>
  Good Evening</p>
<p>Please accept my condolences on your  'Scort.&nbsp;</p>
<p>My name is Chuck, and I live in  Central Washington State.&nbsp; My sister bought a '96 LX back in about 2001,  drove it for eight years, and the head failed.&nbsp; She bought a new car and  gave me the wagon.&nbsp; I installed a remanufactured engine and have been  driving it for about a year.&nbsp; The car has roughly 220K now, 40 of which I  have done.&nbsp; I commute 150 miles a day, 75 miles each way.&nbsp; I live in  the desert, so it's all freeway and it takes about an hour 20.&nbsp; I love the  wagon.&nbsp; I get about 31MPG, but the speed limit is 70 the whole way, and I  typically beat that (there is nothing to hit out there).&nbsp; I got 36MPG  once, but it took FOREVER to get home.&nbsp; </p>
<p>I hope you guys find a suitable  replacement for the 'Scort, I have been watching your website.&nbsp; I will  email you again and let you know how many miles I get out of mine.&nbsp; My  kids are just little, it will be 14 years before they drive.&nbsp; Maybe my  daughter will learn in mine if I can keep it together that long.</p>
<p>Take good care,<br>
Chuck Boss</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 16 Sep 2009 10:04:48 -0700 (PDT)<br>
  From: Justin Fremin</p>
<p>I've been visiting the 'Scort journal for about a year now. Sorry about the  accident - glad no one was hurt. <br>
  I have been building my own '95 wagon for a daily driver and weekend hauler out  to my sailboat. I have a Pacesetter header and the rest of the exhaust system  is stock except for a missing catalytic converter. I also have a EFP 50% UDP like you but I decided I needed an ODP for the  alternator.<br>
  <br>
  Cheers,<br>
Justin Fremin</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed, 7 Oct 2009 01:21:02 -0700 (PDT)<br>
  From: Mark Junge <br>
  </p>
<p>I am so sorry at the loss or your  'scort! I've been following your story, way before I got mine. Same year and I  got it out of South Carolina and it was clean as clean can be! Every time I  would get my oil changed, the guys would open the hood and marvel how clean it  was. You could have eaten off of that engine. And not a bit of rust anywhere!</p>
<p>But alas, mine was taken away from  me <a href="Mark_Junge_Escort_Pictures.html"><font color="#000080">(click here for pictures)</font></a>. I was sitting at a red light and this guy in a SUV hit me doing about 40 in  a 25 mile an hour zone and pushed me under the pickup truck in front of me.  Being pushed underneath it that way and having the hood fold up probably saved  my life! I can't imagine how bad I would have been had it been something  shorter. </p>
<p>Dang I liked that car!&nbsp; I am up  here in PA and if I was on I-80 or I-90 going east and west bound, I could  easily get 37 miles to the gallon, but only on those 2 roads. My first long  trip in it was out to New York for my daughter&rsquo;s wedding and I was I-90 going  east and I keep looking at the gas gauge and it&rsquo;s not going down very much, so  finally I got up to 400 miles and figured I had better stop for gas! I put just  a tad over 10 gallons in! I've gotten a few other escorts since then.......we  won't talk about the one I wiped out coming up from SC after taking out 25 feet  of guard rail! :-) Spun that sucker around! </p>
<p>I've got a 94 4 door, but really can  only get about 32 miles or so per gallon.</p>
<p>I sure would love to get another  wagon, like that, but I guess they are hard to come by. I'll have to stick to  &quot;Barbie&quot; for the time being.....I call her that because the paint is  Iris metallic. Sure stands out in the parking lot though!</p>
<p>Take care and I wish you all the  best.</p>
<p>Regards,</p>
<p>Mark</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: 	Thu, 12 Nov 2009 11:29:10 -0600</p>
<p>From: 	Jason Harmon</p>
<p>Man I've followed your little page for a number of years as I've had various Escorts myself. We had a 96 wagon for a few years, and always admired all the work you put into yours. I'm sad to see yours is gone, but it's good to know someone else out there is crazy enough to keep cars and fix them. I'm seriously impressed at what you were able to get out of the insurance company, I can only hope I do as well if I get into the same situation. </p>
<p>Good luck, I think I'll keep up with your <a href="kawasaki_ninja_250.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Ninja 250R</font></a> page now, as I've always wanted to get one of those...maybe keeping up with you will inspire me to do it when I have the money again :)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Date: Wed Jan 27 09:47:38 2010 </p>
<p>From: Jon Bowden</p>
<p>I've checked into your site every once in a while, now see the wagon is gone. Sorry to hear about it. Why would I check into your site? I've got a 95 Escort Wagon, and a 94 Tracer Wagon, both 5spd... I've kind of become obsessed with them. Where else can you find a 35mpg car that can carry your climber and a 160 pound 8 pointer in the back?   Probably going to sell the escort and keep tracer has it has 50K fewer miles. Great cars. Sorry for your loss</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Photos</b></font></p>

<center><b>The pictures show various views of the Sport 'Scort.</b>

<p><img src="Sport_Scort_Front_Three_Quarter_View.jpg" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="287" width="434">
<img src="Sport_Scort_Front_View.jpg" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="287" width="428"></p>

<p>
<img src="Sport_Scort_Detail_of_Wheels_and_Brakes.jpg" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="128" width="432">
<img src="Sport_Scort_Detail_of_Rear_with_TTDC_Trailer_2.jpg" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="131" width="433"></p>

</center>

<p align="left">The last two pictures show details of the wheels, disk
brakes, and the rear modifications mentioned above. The 'Scort often
is called on to "earn its keep" and is fully out fitted to tow Class
I trailers for our <a href="commerce_properties.htm"><font color="#000080">rental</font></a>
and <a href="ttdc.htm"><font color="#000080">cycling</font></a><font color="#000080"> </font>businesses. Photos of the cycling trailer can be seen
at the <a href="ttdc_trailer.htm"><font color="#000080">Texas
Trail Dust Cycling Trailer
page</font></a><font color="#000080">.</font></p>

<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center">
<img src="Escort/New%20Escort%20Rear%20Bumper/The%20Escort%20in%20the%20early%20morning.JPG" border="0" height="480" width="640"></p><p align="center">The Escort in the early morning.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center"><img style="width: 640px; height: 480px;" alt="" src="Escort/Escort%20Dash/Escort%20dash%202.JPG"></p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;The dash of the Escort (give the floor mats a break after all the 
poor car has over 365,000 miles on it). &nbsp;GPS mounting <font><font><a href="RAM_Mount_On_RightWay_GPS_Bracket.html"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">
project details are located here</font></a></font></font>.</p>

<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Statistics</b></font></p>

<center><table bgcolor="#ffffff" border="1">
   <tbody><tr>
      <td>
         <p>VIN #</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>3FAPP15J6PR124761</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>Paint</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>White</p>
      </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>
         <p>Body Style</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>4 door wagon</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>Trim Code</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>06 - Gray</p>
      </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>
         <p>Manufactured</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>July 1993</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>Engine</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>1.9 liter SOHC</p>
      </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>
         <p>Country of Origin</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>Mexico</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>Transmission</p>
      </td>
      <td>
         <p>5 speed manual</p>
      </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>
</center>

<ul>
   <li><b>Fuel Consumption</b> <font size="+3"> </font>
   
   <ul>
      <li>The car takes a bit longer to go into a "lean burn" mode
      during cold weather than during warm weather, therefore the
      lower figures of the ranges are representative of winter
      driving. The fuel mileage for this project car generally fall
      into the following ranges: 29 to 31 MPG city, 32 to 35 MPG
      under normal use (combined city and highway), and 36 to 39 MPG
      trip highway. There have been a few fill-ups that have
      indicated fuel mileage of 40 MPG, but those have been few
      enough that I cannot claim that as a typical performance
      attribute of this vehicle. Fuel mileage statistics indicate a
      typical tank range (combined city and highway driving) of about
      375 miles and cruising range (highway only driving) of over 425
      miles.</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
   
   <li><b>Gauge Behavior with engine at full operating temperature
   and car cruising at 60 to 70 MPH</b>
   
   <ul>
      <li>Pyrometer -- 1,300 degrees with engine cold or just after
      accelerating to highway speeds and 1,200 degrees after a steady
      speed is achieved and the engine is warm.</li>
      
      <li>Vacuum -- -15 to -5 inches.</li>
      
      <li>Air/Fuel Ratio -- typically indicates a lean condition when
      highway cruising.</li>
      
      <li>Voltmeter -- 13 to 14 volts</li>
      
      <li>Oil pressure -- 55 to 75 pounds per square inch.</li>
      
      <li>Water temperature -- near or just to the right of the
      center of "NORMAL".</li>
      
      <li>Head temperature -- 215 to 225 degrees.</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
   
   <li><b>Project in Review</b>
   
   <ul>
      <li>We started this project with a somewhat sick running 'Scort
      getting 25 to 27 MPG combined. When we first got the car it
      would get 31 to 32 MPG. The fuel mileage has been improved
      significantly. The wagon has improved engine power and
      dramatically better handling. The over-all appearance of the
      vehicle, while still understated, is modern and aggressive
      enough to elicit favorable comments. Overall I would say the
      project is a success (perhaps not from an economic standpoint,
      but otherwise) as the initial goal of a small, fuel efficient
      GT has been achieved.</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>General
Description and Condition</b></font></p>

<ul>
   <li>General condition and appearance: clean, well-maintained
   original</li>
   
   <li>Body: original Oxford White color, good to excellent
   condition, ZXTuner Invader carbon fiber/fiber glass hood</li>
   
   <li>Interior: original medium gray color, very good to excellent
   condition</li>
   
   <li>Engine: remanufactured by Jasper Engines and Transmissions
   engine at 235,000 miles to stock configuration</li>
   
   <li>Transaxle: original, 5 speed with heavy-duty clutch
   assembly</li>
   
   <li>Suspension: Performance modified 1993 Escort GT with
   Polyurethane bushings and HD struts</li>
   
   <li>Brakes: 1993 Escort GT four wheel disk system</li>
   
   <li>Induction system: atmospheric/cool air</li>
   
   <li>Ignition: Accel HP Coil Pack with Accel 8.8 low resistance
   wires and Bosch Platinum 2 plugs</li>
   
   <li>Exhaust: Ford 1988 Escort GT 4-2-1 header, Car Sound high-flow
   catalytic converter, resonator, and Flowmaster 60 Series
   muffler</li>
   
   <li>Horse power (rough estimate): 100+ hp</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Technical
Consultants</b></font></p>

<ul>
   <li>Kenny Anderson, owner, Anderson Automotive, Trenton,
   Texas</li>
   
   <li>Rob Green, owner, <a href="http://www.zx2racing.com/store/"><font color="#000080">ZXTuner</font></a>,
   Sun City, California</li>
   
   <li>Donald McCallum, master mechanic, Jackson Motorplex in
   Commerce, Texas</li>
   
   <li>Phillip Wong, owner, <a href="http://www.intercrew-racing.com"><font color="#000080">Intercrew
   Auto Salon</font></a>, Richardson, Texas</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Detailed
Modifications List</b></font></p>

<ul>
   <li><b>Engine (** Modifications that may improve fuel
   economy)</b>
   
   <ul>
      <li>Jasper Engines and Transmissions remanufactured engine</li>
      
      <li>Escort-Focus Performance 50% under-drive pulley
      (manufactured by Black Diamond Racing) **</li>
      
      <li>Accel HP Coil Pack **</li>
      
      <li>Accel 8.8 stainless steel low resistance spiral core spark
      plug wires **</li>
      
      <li>Bosch Platinum 2 spark plugs (custom gapped) **</li>
      
      <li>ZXTuner/Hotshot Performance cool air induction **</li>
      
      <li>Cool air scoop with under bumper entry</li>
      
      <li>S&amp;B "funnel ram" air filter **</li>
      
      <li>S&amp;B valve cover breather</li>
      
      <li>Ford factory exhaust 4-2-1 header from a 1988 Escort GT
      **</li>
      
      <li>Car Sound 2" 53004 high flow catalytic converter **</li>
      
      <li>Flowmaster 2" 60 Series Performance Import muffler, 2"
      custom exhaust system with resonator. **</li>
      
      <li><a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
      Auto Parts</font></a> Escort/Taurus radiator</li>
      
      <li>Two AC condenser mounted 10" Hayden auxiliary cooling fans
      "pushers". The stock radiator mounted "puller" fan is still in
      place.</li>
      
      <li>ZXTuner low temperature cooling fan circuit with "heavy
      use" manual override switch</li>
      
      <li>Heavy-duty clutch assembly</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
   
   <li><b>Suspension</b>
   
   <ul>
      <li>Gabriel VST HD struts</li>
      
      <li>Energy Suspension Polyurethane Master "Hyperflex" bushing
      kit (ZX2 S/R equivalent)</li>
      
      <li>1.1 inch front stabilizer bar from a '99 Escort sedan</li>
      
      <li>Addco 7/8ths inch rear stabilizer bar with Polyurethane
      bushings</li>
      
      <li>Reinforced lower forward control arm</li>
      
      <li>Cork Sport front strut tower bar</li>
      
      <li>Cork Sport "Type II" rear strut tower bar</li>
      
      <li>Four wheel disk brakes from a 1993 Escort GT with 10.25
      inch front disks</li>
      
      <li>X-wheels 5-spoke 15 inch wheels</li>
      
      <li>Falken Ziex ZE-512 195 50/15 radials front and rear</li>
      
      <li>Wheel alignment custom set for minimum rolling resistance
      with low-profile tires</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
   
   <li><b>Body/Interior</b>
   
   <ul>
      <li>Blaupunkt (head)/Kenwood (front speakers)/JBL (rear
      speakers)/Rockford Fosgate (sub-woofer) sound system</li>
      
      <li>Auto Meter air/fuel ratio, vacuum, voltmeter, oil pressure and head temperature gauges</li>
      
      <li>Hella FF75 driving lights additionally wired for daytime
      running light use</li>
      
      <li>LLumar Window Film on all windows</li>
      
      <li>ZXTuner Invader carbon fiber/fiber glass hood</li>
      
      <li>Escort GT grill with lower front bumper skin/air dam
      modifications</li>
      
      <li>Le Bra front end mask</li>
      
      <li>Ford Escort LTS front lower valance</li>
      
      <li>Clear front corner lamps</li>
      
      <li>1998 Mercury Tracer tail lights</li>
      
      <li>"Sport" badge from a 2000 Dodge Avenger in place of the
      "Escort LX" badge</li>
   </ul>
   </li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>The "To
Do" List</b></font></p>

<ul>
   <li>Restore interior</li>
   
   <li>Repaint</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="left"><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Escort
Related Links</b></font> </p>

<center>

<p><a href="http://www.xr3i.co.uk/"><font color="#000080">The Almost
Official Ford Escort XR3i Web Site</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.escortracing.net/"><font color="#000080">Escort
Racing</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.escorttuner.com/"><font color="#000080">Escort
Tuner</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.escorttuning.com/"><font color="#000080">Escort
Tuning</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.escortunderground.com/"><font color="#000080">Escort
Underground</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.feoa.net/"><font color="#000080">Ford Escort
Owners Association</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.mathermotorsports.com/"><font color="#000080">Mather
Motorsports</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.Myfordescort.com/"><font color="#000080">MyFordEscort.com</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.wrc-cosworth.org/"><font color="#000080">Sigmond's
Ford Escort RS Cosworth Page</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.members.tripod.com/sleeperscort/"><font color="#000080">Sleeper
'Scort</font></a></p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

</center>

<p align="left"><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Recommended
Parts Sources</b></font></p>

<center>

<p><a href="http://www.autometer.com/"><font color="#000080">Auto
Meter Products</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.blackdiamondracing.com/"><font color="#000080">Black
Diamond Racing</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.car-sound.com"><font color="#000080">Car
Sound</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.corksport.com"><font color="#000080">Cork
Sport</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.discounttiredirect.com/"><font color="#000080">Discount
Tire Direct</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.energysuspension.com/"><font color="#000080">Energy
Suspension</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.escortfocus.com/"><font color="#000080">Escort-Focus
Performance</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.falkentire.com/"><font color="#000080">Falken
Tire Corporation</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.flowmastermufflers.com/"><font color="#000080">Flowmaster
Mufflers</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.ford.com/"><font color="#000080">Ford</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.herbspaintandbody.com"><font color="#000080">Herb's
Paint and Body</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.intercrew-racing.com"><font color="#000080">Intercrew
Auto Salon</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.jasperengines.com/"><font color="#000080">Jasper
Engines and Transmissions</font></a></p>
<p><a href="http://www.jjvolkswagon.com/"><font color="#000080">J &amp; J Volkswagon</font></a></p>
<p><a href="http://www.llumar.com/"><font color="#000080">LLumar
Window Film</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.mobil1.com/"><font color="#000080">Mobil
1</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.oreillyauto.com/"><font color="#000080">O'Reilly
Auto Parts</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.summitracing.com"><font color="#000080">Summit
Racing Equipment</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.usautoparts.com/"><font color="#000080">US
Auto Parts</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.vdona.com/"><font color="#000080">Siemens VDO
Automotive</font></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.zx2racing.com/store/"><font color="#000080">ZXTuner</font></a></p>

<p><font color="#000080">Support Your Local Auto Salvage
Yard</font></p></center>

<blockquote><center>&nbsp;</center></blockquote>

   <p align="left"><font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Other
   Yeager Group Sites</b></font></p>
   
<blockquote><center>

<blockquote><center>
   
   <p><a href="yeager_group.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">The
   Yeager Group Education Research and Family Ministry</font></a></p>
   
   <p><a href="yeager_group.htm"><font></font></a><font><a href="Trip_Log.html"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">The
   Yeager's Trip and Vacation Journal </font></a></font></p>
   
   <p><a href="Trenton_House.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">
   The Yeager's 2006 Trenton, Texas Home</font></a></p>
   <p><a href="Civic_Hybrid.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman, Times, serif">The Yeager's 2004 Honda Civic Hybrid</font></a><a href="Civic_Hybrid.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman, Times, serif"></font></a></p>
   <p><a href="Ford_Ranger.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman, Times, serif">The Yeager's 2005 Ford Ranger XLT</font></a></p>
   <p><a href="triumph_tr6.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">The
   Yeager's 1976 Triumph TR6</font></a></p>
   
   <p><a href="kawasaki_ninja_250.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">
   The Yeager's Kawasaki Ninja 250s</font></a></p><p><a href="E-Z-GO_Golf_Cart.html"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">
   The Yeager's 2004 E-Z-GO TXT</font></a></p>
   <p>&nbsp;</p>
   </center>
</blockquote>

   </center></blockquote>

   <p align="left">&nbsp;<font color="#000080" face="Century Gothic" size="+1"><b>Further
   Information on the Yeagers / Contact Information</b></font></p>
   
<blockquote><center>
   
   <p><a href="yeager_group_about_us.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">About
   Us</font></a></p>
   
   <p><a href="yeager_group_contact.htm"><font color="#000080" face="Times New Roman">Contact
   Us</font></a></p>
   
   <p>&nbsp;</p>
   
   <p><img src="usa_flying_flag.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="95" width="132"></p>
   
   <p><font color="#000080" face="Arial" size="+1">God Bless America</font></p>
   <p>&nbsp;</p>
   <p><font color="#000000" face="Times New Roman" size="-2"><img src="recycle2.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="40" width="42"></font>
   
   <p><font color="#009900" face="Arial">This site was constructed
   using</font></p></center></blockquote>

<center>
  <p><font color="#00cc00" face="Arial"><img src="recycled.gif" x-claris-useimagewidth="" x-claris-useimageheight="" align="bottom" height="21" width="253"></font></p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p><a href="http://www4.clustrmaps.com/user/f6fe482b"><img src="http://www4.clustrmaps.com/stats/maps-no_clusters/www.TheYeagerGroup.Com-thumb.jpg" alt="Locations of visitors to this page" /></a></p>
</center>
</body></html>